\documentclass[9pt,twocolumn,twoside]{../../styles/osajnl}
\usepackage{fancyvrb}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{listings,lstautogobble}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\journal{i524}

\definecolor{RoyalBlue}{cmyk}{1, 0.50, 0, 0}


\title{An Overview of the Java Message Service (JMS)}


\lstset{language=Java,
    keywordstyle=\color{RoyalBlue},
    basicstyle=\scriptsize\ttfamily,
    commentstyle=\ttfamily\itshape\color{gray},
    stringstyle=\ttfamily,
    showstringspaces=false,
    breaklines=true,
    frameround=ffff,
    frame=single,
    rulecolor=\color{black},
    autogobble=true
}

\author[1]{Rahul Singh}

\affil[1]{School of Informatics and Computing, Bloomington, IN 47408, U.S.A.}

\affil[*]{Corresponding authors: rahpsing@iu.edu}

\dates{\today}

\ociscodes{Cloud, I524}

% replace this with your url in github/gitlab
\doi{\url{https://github.com/cloudmesh/sp17-i524/blob/master/paper1/S17-IR-2036/report.pdf}}


\begin{abstract}
Enterprise applications coordinate with each other through the
exchange of asynchronous requests termed 'messages'. Messages contain
precisely formatted data that describe specific business
actions. Through the exchange of these messages each application
tracks the progress of the enterprise. Messaging systems are expected
to support fault tolerance, load balancing, scalability, and
transactional support. JMS provides an intersection of messaging
system common to all products. The Java Message Service (JMS) provides
a standardized API that can be used for sending and receiving messages
with many different messaging systems. \newline
\end{abstract}

\setboolean{displaycopyright}{true}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

\section{Introduction}

\emph{RMI (Remote Method Invocation)} \cite{www-rmi-wiki} and
\emph{RPC (Remote Procedure Call)} \cite{www-rpc-wiki} were widely
used as messaging systems in enterprise applications. With the advent
of distributed systems, a need arised for a loosely coupled messaging
API whose implementation wouldn't depend on knowing the details of the
receiver components unlike RMI and RPC. Sun, along with several partner
companies, introduced the \emph{JMS API} \cite{www-jms-wiki} which
defines a common set of interfaces and associated semantics that allow
programs written in the Java programming language to communicate with
other messaging implementations. JMS is a part of the Java Platform,
Enterprise Edition, and is defined by a specification developed under
the Java Community Process as \emph{JSR 914} \cite{www-jms-javajsr}.
It is a messaging standard that allows application components based on
the Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE) to create, send, receive, and
read messages. It allows the communication between different
components of a distributed application to be loosely coupled,
reliable, and asynchronous \cite{www-jms-oracle}. The JMS API
minimizes the set of concepts a programmer must learn in order to use
messaging products but provides enough features to support
sophisticated messaging applications.

\section{JMS API Architecture}

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\fbox{\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{images/jmsarchitecture}}
\caption{Jms architecture \cite{www-jms-tutorialoracle} }
\label{fig:JMS Objects}
\end{figure}

A JMS application consists of the following major components.  A JMS
provider is a messaging system that implements the JMS interfaces and
provides administrative and control features. An implementation of the
Java EE platform includes a JMS provider
\cite{www-jms-tutorialoracle}. JMS Clients are the Java language
programs that send and receive messages. Any Java EE application
component can act as a JMS client.  Messages are the objects used to
communicate information between the JMS clients.  Administered objects
are preconfigured JMS objects created by an administrator for the use
of clients.  JMS administered objects are 'destinations' and
'connection factories'. Destinations are the objects that a client uses
to specify the destination of messages it sends and the source from
where it receives them.  A client uses a Connection Factory object to
establish connection with a provider.

Administrative tools allow a user to bind destinations and connection
factories into a \emph{JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Inteface)}
\cite{www-jndi-wiki} namespace. The JNDI is a directory service that
that allows Java clients to lookup services by a unique name bound to
each service. A JMS client can then use resource injection to access
the administered objects in the namespace and then establish a logical
connection to the same objects through the JMS provider
\cite{www-jms-tutorialoracle}.


\section{JMS Communication Models}

Before the advent of JMS, message provider systems supported either
the point-to-point or the publish/subscribe approach to messaging
implementations. The JMS specification provides common interfaces that
enables a user to use the JMS API in a way that is not specific to
either domain. A stand-alone JMS provider can implement one or both
domains. A Java EE provider must implement both domains.

\subsection{Point-to-point model}

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\fbox{\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{images/point-to-point}}
\caption{Point-to-Point model \cite{www-jms-tutorialoracle}}
\label{fig:Point-to-Point messaging}
\end{figure}

\emph{Point-to-point (PTP)} domains are built around the concept of
message queues.  Each message is addressed to a specific queue;
clients extract messages from the queue(s) established to hold their
messages. Queues retain all messages sent to them until the messages
are consumed or expired.

\subsection{Publish/Subscribe model}

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\fbox{\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{images/publish-subscribe}}
\caption{Publish/Subscribe model \cite{www-jms-tutorialoracle}}
\label{fig: Publish/Subscribe messaging}
\end{figure}

In a publish/subscribe product or application, each message can have
multiple consumers. Clients address messages to a topic, which is
equivalent to a bulletin board. \emph{Publishers} and
\emph{subscribers} are anonymous and can dynamically publish or
subscribe to the content hierarchy. The system shall take care of
distributing the messages arriving from a topicâ€™s multiple publishers
to its multiple subscribers. Topics shall retain messages only for the
time it takes to distribute them to current subscribers.  Publishers
and subscribers have a timing dependency. A client that subscribes to
a topic can consume only messages published after the client has
created a subscription, and the subscriber must continue to be active
in order for it to consume messages \cite{www-jms-tutorialoracle}.


\section{Implementing the JMS Programming model}

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\fbox{\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{images/programming-model}}
\caption{Jms programming model \cite{www-jms-fischli-article}}
\label{fig:JMS Programming Objects}
\end{figure}

To implement the JMS specification, a series of objects must be
created and registered to the system. The following steps comprise of
developing a basic JMS system.

\subsection{Creating administered objects and binding resources}

Creating and configuring connection factories and destinations are
responsibilities of the system administrator. Alternatively, these
administered objects shall also be created from the server admin
console available in Glassfish or any other application servers.  A
JMS client can obtain access to connection factories and destinations
by looking them up using JNDI.
A connection encapsulates a virtual connection with a JMS provider
and is used to create one or more sessions.

\subsection{Creating a message object}

The JMS API provides methods for creating messages of each type and
for filling in their contents. For example, to create a message object
the primitive \emph{createMessage()} shall be used. Correspondingly, to
set the content of a TextMessage, the primitive \emph{setText()} shall
be used.

\subsection{Creating a producer and sending the message}

A message producer is an object that is created by a session and used
for sending messages to a destination.  A Session object is used to
create a MessageProducer for a destination. A Message producer can be
created for a Destination object, a Queue object, or a Topic object.

Once a message producer has been created, it shall be used to send
messages by using the \emph{send()} method.

\subsection{Consuming a message}

A message consumer is an object that is created by a session and used
for receiving messages sent to a destination.  A message consumer
allows a JMS client to register itself in a destination with a JMS
provider. The JMS provider manages the delivery of messages from a
destination to the registered consumers of the destination.  Similar
to a producer, a Message Consumer can be created for a Destination
object, a Queue object, or a Topic object.

To support asynchronous operations, JMS defines the concept of a
listener.  A message listener is an object that acts as an
asynchronous event handler for messages. The listener defines an
onMessage method, where we shall define the actions that need to be
taken once a message arrives.

A message listener shall be registered with a specific message consumer
by using the \emph{setMessageListener()} method defined by the API.

\section{Anatomy of the JMS Message}


A JMS message carries application data and provides event
notifications.  A JMS message has three parts - the message headers
provide metadata and routing information, the message properties are
defined by the JMS client, the message body carries the payload of the
message. When a message is delivered, the properties and the body of
the message are made read-only \cite{www-jms-fischli-article}.

\subsection{Types Of Message}

Message types
\begin{itemize}
\item TextMessage - contains String as payload.
\item ObjectMessage - contains Java serializable object as its payload.
\item Bytes Message -contains an array of bytes as its payload.
\item Stream Message - carries stream of Java primitive types as its payload.
\item Map Message - carries a set of name-value pairs as its payload.
\end{itemize}

\section{Message acknowlegement and guaranteed delivery}


Message acknowledgment is part of the protocol between the client
runtime library of the JMS provider and the message server
\cite{www-jms-fischli-article}. The acknowledgment protocol allows the
JMS provider to guarantee delivery of messages to its
consumers/subscribers.

In the point-to-point domain messages are always guaranteed to be
delivered whereas, in the publish/subscribe domain messages are only
guaranteed to be delivered to durable subscribers.  If a consumer
fails to acknowledge a message, the server considers the message
undelivered and shall attempt to redeliver it.

JMS specifies three acknowledgment modes which are set when a session
is created:
\begin{itemize}
\item AUTO-ACKNOWLEDGE - The session automatically acknowledges
a client's receipt of a message after a successful return from the
receive() or the onMessage() method.
\item CLIENT-ACKNOWLEGE - The client
acknowledges a message by calling the message's acknowledge() method
which gives the client a finer grained control.
\item DUPS-OK-ACKNOWLEDGE - The session lazily acknowledges the
delivery of messages which may result in the delivery of duplicate
messages if the JMS provider fails \cite{www-jms-fischli-article}.

\end{itemize}

\section{JMS Use Cases}

\subsection{Multi client communication}

The JMS API provides a standard API that can be implemented by any
messaging system. JMS allows multiple clients, potentially written in
different languages to access information and coordinate with with
each other.

\subsection{Event Oriented Applications}

Highly event oriented applications like the stock market require
immediate action when the stock prices go high or low. In financial
markets, it is a must for the customers to be notified whenever
something important happens. The JMS API serves this purpose by
providing configuration capabilities to act quickly on the occurence
of any important event.

\subsection{Workflow of an entire web application}

A fully functional web application has several components which at
some point in time depend on each other's availability to perform
their operations successfully. In a real-time environment, it wouldn't
be ideal for a component to keep waiting on the result produced by
another dependent component. Messaging attempts to fulfill this gap by
notifying component say - A, about the status of another dependent
component say - B on a timely basis, thus, allowing component A to
proceed with other operations and notifying it once component B has
produced a result.

\subsection{Transactional Messaging}

JMS API guarantees processing each message exactly once irrespective
of system failures. When working with a system with multiple clusters
of nodes, the API guarantees that "if any node goes offline then all
the messages will be persisted for when the node comes back online"
\cite{www-activemq-usecases}.

\section{Conclusion}
JMS provides a connection oriented approach to messaging in
distributed systems. It provides loosely coupled communication by
allowing objects to communicate with each other without knowing their
implementation details, thus overcoming the drawbacks of RMI. It
supports both one-to-one and many-to-many communication model and
guarantees message delivery depending on the provider implementation.


% Bibliography

\bibliography{references}


\end{document}
