\documentclass[9pt,twocolumn,twoside]{styles/osajnl}
\usepackage{fancyvrb}
\journal{i524} 

\title{\LaTeX\ Triana for Big Data}

\author{Abhishek Naik}

\affil[1]{School of Informatics and Computing, Bloomington, IN 47408, U.S.A.}

\affil[*]{Corresponding authors: ahnaik@indiana.edu}

\dates{paper-1, \today}

\ociscodes{Cloud, I524}

% replace this with your url in github/gitlab
\doi{\url{https://github.com/absnaik810/sp17-i524/blob/master/paper1/S17-IR-2022/report.pdf}}


\begin{abstract}
\href{https://www.overleaf.com}{Overleaf} system or \href{https://www.sharelatex.com/}
{Sharelatex} systems.\newline
\end{abstract}

\setboolean{displaycopyright}{true}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

\section{Introduction}

Triana is an open source Problem Solving Environment (PSE) that is
supported with a powerful data analysis tool.  It is predominantly
used for image, text and signal processing; and comes with a host of
different tools for analysis.  Besides, it also provides features for
easy integration of custom analysis tools.  It thus focuses on
supporting services from various environments, like peer-to-peer (P2P)
and Grid.

\section{Background}
\cite{TrianaDocumentation1} Triana has a graphical interactive
environment that can be used by the users to create their applications
and specify their behavior.  In this, it is similar to tools like
\cite{DrawIO} draw.io and \cite{IBM-Rational-Rose} IBM's Rational Rose
that provide the user with a graphical user interface (GUI) to draw
the UML diagrams.  The users can model the work flow using the various
units onto the workspace and then depict the relationship between them
with some interconnection.

\cite{TrianaGEO600} Triana was originally developed for the GEO600
gravitation project.  In this project, it is still being used for
analysing the gravitational wave signals that emanate from the laser
interferometer based out of Germany.  \cite{TrianaDocumentation2}
Triana uses a pluggable architecture, that is it checks the inputs
coming to, and the outputs coming from various units in real time to
perform data-type checking and conformation.  It can also be used to
monitor the work flow and run the executables in standalone mode.
\cite{RMBDP-Book} It has a custom work flow language, although it can
be integrated with others like the Business Process Execution Language
(BPEL).  This helps it in analysing large data sets and makes it
particularly important in big data analysis.

\section{Infrastructure}

\cite{TrianaDocumentation2} The Triana infrastructure consists of the
Triana Controlling Service (TCS) that has a Triana Engine, implemented
as a Triana service.  The Triana engines are free to carry out the
execution either locally or on distributed servers, as per the
implementation policies in force.  Communication in the later case can
be carried out using pipelined work flow distributions.

The Triana Distributed implementation makes use of Triana Group units.
They have the same features of the normal units (like input/output,
etc.) and so they can be connected to the other Triana Units using the
standard connection mechanism.  The tools need to be group so that
they can be distributed; and Triana has two distribution policies:

\begin{itemize}

\item Parallel: a 'farming-out' mechanism involving no communication between the hosts.
\item Pipeline: this involves distributing the group 'vertically'.

\end{itemize}

Groups can in turn contain groups and each group can in turn, have its
own distribution policy to be followed.  The Triana distribution
mechanisms are based upon the concept of GAT (Grid Application
Toolkit).  The GAT aims to shield the applications from the
implementation details using a standard Application Programming
Interface (GAT-API).  It also provides a set of Grid services for
carrying out tasks such as resource and information management.

\section{Projects}

\cite{Triana-projects} Triana has been involved in a lot of projects
(including some Big Data projects) like the
\cite{Triana-Data-Mining-Grid} Data-Mining Grid, \cite{Triana-SRSS}
Scalable Robust Self-organizing Sensor Network Project (SRSS) and
\cite{Triana-SHIWA} SHaring Interoperable Work flows for large-scale
scientific simulations on Available DCIs (SHIWA), etc.  As a part of
the Data-Mining Grid, Triana was predominantly used to model and then
manage the planning, development and the execution of data-mining work
flows in grid computing environments.  \cite{Triana-SRSS} The SRSS
project is carrying out a research about the various communication
protocols that can be leveraged in distributed and self-organizing
networks; and they are using Triana's P2P binding to simulate various
P2P networks.  The European project, SHIWA, mainly focuses on the
interoperability of myriad European Work flow Systems and has been
intrinsically integrated with Triana to create \cite{Triana-SHIWA}
SHIWA bundles.  Other than these, Triana is also being actively used
in some other projects like EDGI, TRIACS, EDGES, WHIP (Work flows
Hosted In Portals), DART (Distributed Audio Retrieval using Triana),
GridOneD, GEO600, BiodiversityWorld, DIPSO, GEMMS, etc. many of which
are related to Big Data.

\section{Conclusion}

Thus, to conclude, we presented Triana and the Triana PSE.  We focused
on the Triana infrastructure as well as its distributed
implementation.  We also presented some Big Data projects that used
Triana for their development.

% Bibliography

\bibliography{references}

\end{document}
